Video Backend Tutorial (#1316)
mongodb/docs-realm: videos/scripts/backend.rst

Realm Backend Tutorial
======================

> Hi! My name is ...., and I'm one of the developer educators here at MongoDB. 

Reviewer: nit: do we want to "set in stone" the developer educator title? Alternatively "I'm an [education] engineer here at MongoDB"

In this tutorial, I'll walk you through the first of the Realm tutorials -- the 

> Backend for the Task Tracker app. This video follows the steps in the tutorial, 

Reviewer: nit - maybe we can be a little more wordy/descriptive here?

"... first of the Realm tutorials where we set up a hosted Realm Application to serve as the backend for the task tracker app"

Author: Trying to find a balance between info and time...but I agree, this needs more!

> so you can follow along as I walk through it.

Reviewer: nit: "follow along" with the tutorial or with the video?

There are five steps in this tutorial: we'll start by creating a free Atlas account,
set up a free Atlas cluster to hold our data, install and then configure the Realm 

> command line tools, and finally upload a pre-configured backend Realm app. 

Reviewer: Are you counting "install" and "configure" separately? I only count four steps here:

1. Create an Atlas account
2. Set up a cluster
3. Install & configure Realm CLI
4. Upload the pre-configured Realm app

Author: counting is for losers.

So let's get started.

.. <time tag 1> <see https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/01/how-to-add-time-tags-to-youtube-video-jump-to-tagged-sections/>

First, open your browser and go to **account.mongodb.com**.

> On the logon page, click ``Sign Up``. Of course, if you already have an Atlas 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the login page, click ``Sign Up``. Of course, if you already have an Atlas 
```

nit: "login" is a bit more common I think + avoids a double "on" in the sentence

> account, you can skip ahead to the next section. On the next page, you can 

Reviewer: Should we put this "already have an account" note at the start of this step rather than mixing it into the middle?

enter in your information, or -- if you already have a Google account -- you can 
save time by logging in with that account. I'm going to go ahead and do that:

.. <time tag 2>

Now that we have an account, let's set up a cluster. An Atlas cluster is a 

> managed service that is hosted in Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, or 

Reviewer: seems like we can be a bit more descriptive than "managed service". At least mention that a cluster is a hosted mongodb database as opposed to some other product.

in Virginia. The cluster will run the latest version of MongoDB and the name of the 
cluster will be "Cluster0." You can leave everything on this page at the default 
settings and then click ``Create Cluster``. 

.. You'll note that I changed the location ... maybe I'll re-record this to keep it simple.

It takes one to three minutes to set up the cluster, after which the Atlas page 
refreshes. While the cluster is being set up, we can install the Realm CLI -- 
the command-line tools that we'll use to simplify the backend setup. 

.. <time tag 3>

First, open a terminal window.
Type in ``npm install -g mongodb-realm-cli`` and hit enter. This command uses 
``npm`` to globally install the Realm CLI, so you can run it from any location.
When the installation is complete, return to the Atlas web page.

When the cluster creation is complete, you will see "Cluster0" listed. Near the 
top of the page, find the ``Access Manager`` menu. Click on that, and then choose 
``Project Access``. 
Click on the ``API Keys`` tab, and then click on this ``Create API Key`` button.

For the Description, let's add a name that will remind us -- and others -- why 

> this key was created. I'll type in ``API Key for Ream CLI``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this key was created. I'll type in ``API Key for Realm CLI``. 
```

For Project Permissions, we want to give the CLI tools Project Owner permissions 
and remove the read-only permissions.

> Click Next.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Click Next to create the new API key.
```

This next screen shows us the new key pair that's been created -- the public key 

> and private key. We gave the CLI full control, which means we need to keep our 

Reviewer: "full control" here means Project Owner, right? Maybe we can be specific that we mean it has permission to create/update/delete anything in the project

Author: Ended up removing it because really all API keys need to be kept secret...that's the whole point.

secret key truly secret. This is the last time we'll see the private key, so copy 
it now and save it somewhere that you can find later...but not in a public place

> like a screencast that will be shared with the world.

Reviewer: heh, cheeky 😉

> Finally, click the ``Add Access List Entry``. This opens a dialog that aloows us 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, click ``Add Access List Entry``. This opens a dialog that allows us 
```

to restrict access to one or more IP addresses, so even if someone got a hold of 
the private key, they wouldn't be able to access your cluster unless the computer 

> they are on is within the range of allowed API keys. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they are on uses an allowed IP address.
```

In the ``Add Access List Entry`` dialog, click the ``Use Current IP Address`` 
button, and you'll see your current IP address added. Click Save.

Note that this restricts access to the IP address you are on right now. If you 

> will be working on this tutorial from multiple locations, you will want to specify 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be working on this tutorial from multiple locations, you should specify 
```

and look up CIDR notation -- there are several online tools in which 
you can enter the range of IP addresses you need to support and get the 
appropriate CIDR notation to enter here. 

Click ``Save``, and then click ``Done``. You are now ready to use the CLI tools.

.. <time tag 4>

Switch back to your terminal window, and type in the ``realm-cli login`` command. 
I've chosen to copy-and-paste the command from the tutorial. And since 
I copied my keys into a VS Code window, I'll paste those in as I enter the 
command.

If you enter everything correctly, you'll see this nice message:
.. (on screen, no need to say it)

.. <time tag 5>

The last part of this tutorial is using these CLI tools to import a pre-built 
Realm backend app, greatly simplifying the time it takes to set it up. So let's 
download that app configuration and upload it to our Realm cluster.

First, we'll use ``git`` to download the app configuration. I'm going to make 
a new directory to store these files and switch to it.

From this directory, let's clone the git directory. This command is 
in the written part of the tutorial and it might be easier to copy-and-paste it 

> from there, rather than try to copy from this screencast.

Reviewer: Should we call out the specific org/repo name anyway so they know what to cmd+f? i.e. `mongodb-university/realm-tutorial-backend`

.. git clone https://github.com/mongodb-university/realm-tutorial-backend.git

We now have a directory named ``realm-tutorial-backend``. Let's switch to that, 
and we're ready to import this app to our cluster. 

> Type ``realm-cli push``. When the push is complete, you'll see this message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run ``realm-cli push`` to create a new Realm App based on the cloned configuration files. When the push is complete, you'll see this message. 
```

Reviewer: nit: What message will I see? Should we indicate in the transcript that it's shown on screen?

Author: Yeah...good point. Was assuming they'd see it on the screen, but it should be int he transcript, too.

> Let's switch back to our browser. When the app has finished being created, you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's switch back to our browser. You 
```
nit: maybe we could use a _little_ less passive voice here. Also the app should be created when the push is finished, so this will always be the case by the time we switch back to our browser.

> can click on this ``Realm`` tab, and you'll see we now have a new realm app 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can click on the ``Realm`` tab, and you'll see we now have a new realm app 
```

> named "tasktracker". You can click on the name to open the management console 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
named "tasktracker". Click on the name to open the app's management console UI.
```

Realm Backend Tutorial
======================

Hi! My name is ...., and I'm one of the developer educators here at MongoDB. 

In this tutorial, I'll walk you through the first of the Realm tutorials -- the 
Backend for the Task Tracker app. This video follows the steps in the tutorial, 
so you can follow along as I walk through it.

> There are 5 steps in this tutorial: we'll start by creating a free Atlas account,

Reviewer 2: As this is meant to serve as a transcription/CC, we should spell out numbers 0-9.

```suggestion
There are five steps in this tutorial: we'll start by creating a free Atlas account,
```

set up a free Atlas cluster to hold our data, install and then configure the Realm 
command line tools, and finally upload a pre-configured backend Realm app. 

So let's get started.

.. <time tag 1> <see https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/01/how-to-add-time-tags-to-youtube-video-jump-to-tagged-sections/>

First, open your browser and go to **account.mongodb.com**.
On the logon page, click "Sign Up". Of course, if you already have an Atlas 
account, you can skip ahead to the next section. On the next page, you can 

> enter in your information, or -- if you already have a google account -- you can 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enter in your information, or -- if you already have a Google account -- you can 
```

save time by logging in with that account. I'm going to go ahead and do that:

.. <time tag 2>

> Now that we have an account, let's set up a cluster. An Atlas cluster is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have an account, let's set up a cluster. An Atlas cluster is a
```

managed service that is hosted in Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, or 
Amazon Web Services. For this demo, we'll set up a free Atlas cluster in 
AWS.

In the "Shared" section, click ``Create``.
The default settings will create a cluster in an AWS M0 sandbox running on servers 

> in Virginia. The cluster will run MongoDB version 4.4, and the name of the 

Reviewer 2: Just a thought - it might be good to find out when the default for creating a cluster will switch to 5.0. If this is soon, we might want to omit the MongoDB version to make this video/script more maintainable - otherwise, we'll have to re-record this soon.

Author: Excellent point!

cluster will be "Cluster 0." You can leave everything on this page at the default 

> settings and then click "Create Cluster". 

Reviewer 2: I'm noting at this point that the transcript appears to be inconsistent about using quotes versus backticks to denote UI elements. i.e. here we say: 

> click "Create Cluster". 

But above we say 

> click \``Create``.

If we want to use both, maybe it makes sense to use quotes for text on the page, be it a label or a text link, and use backticks for buttons?

.. You'll note that I changed the location ... maybe I'll re-record this to keep it simple.

> It takes 1-3 minutes to set up the cluster, after which the Atlas page refreshes.

Reviewer 2: As this is meant to serve as the captioning/transcription, we should spell out numbers 0-9.

```suggestion
It takes one to three minutes to set up the cluster, after which the Atlas page refreshes.
```

While the cluster is being set up, we can install the Realm CLI -- the command-
line tools that we'll use to simplify the backend setup. 

.. <time tag 3>

First, open a terminal window.
Type in ``npm install -g mongodb-realm-cli`` and hit enter. This command uses 
``npm`` to globally install the Realm CLI, so you can run it from any location.
When the installation is complete, return to the Atlas web page.

> When the cluster creation is complete, you will see Cluster 0 listed. Near the 

Reviewer 2: In the UI, this shows as `Cluster0`. I recommend either concatenating it to match the UI, or spelling out `zero` as a transcript would.

If you spell out zero, you should probably do that above in line 34 where it says "Cluster 0".

top of the page, find the ``Access Manager`` menu. Click on that, and then choose 
"Project Access". 
Click on the ``API Keys`` tab, and then click on this ``Create API Key`` button.

For the Description, let's add a name that will remind us -- and others -- why 
this key was created. I'll type in "API Key for Ream CLI". 

For Project Permissions, we want to give the CLI tools Project Owner permissions 
and remove the read-only permissions.

Click Next.

This next screen shows us the new key pair that's been created -- the public key 
and private key. We gave the CLI full control, which means we need to keep our 
secret key truly secret. This is the last time we'll see the private key, so copy 

> it now and save it somewhere that you can find later...but not in public place

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it now and save it somewhere that you can find later...but not in a public place
```

like a screencast that will be shared with the world.

Finally, click the ``Add Access List Entry``. This allows us to restrict access 
to one or more IP addresses, so even if someone got a hold of the private key, 

> they won't be able to access your Cluster unless they are within the range of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they won't be able to access your cluster unless they are within the range of 
```

allowed API keys. 

In the dialog, click ``Use Current IP Address``, and you'll see your current IP 

> address in the filled it. Click Save.

Reviewer 2: > address in the filled it.

Not quite sure what this is supposed to be. "in the field?" Might want to reword this line.

Note that this restricts access to the IP address you are on right now. If you 
will be working on this tutorial from multiple locations, you will want to specify 
a range of IP addresses by using CIDR notation. If you need to, pause this video 
and look up CIDR notation. A useful tool I've found is https://cidr.xyz/, in which 
you can enter the range of IP addresses you need to support and get the 
appropriate CIDR notation. 

> .. *** Question for reviewers: is it OK to refer to a site we don't own??? I don't 

Reviewer 2: I kind of agree, but it's nice for folks who may not be familiar with this to have a resource.

If you don't want to refer directly to the site, maybe a way to get around this would be saying something like:

> A web search can show you tools in which you can enter a range of IP addresses you need to support, and get the appropriate CIDR notation.

Realm backend app, greatly simplifying the time it takes to set it up. So let's 
download that app configuration and upload it to our Realm cluster.

First, we'll use ``git`` to download the app configuration. I'm going to make 
a new directory to store these files and switch to it.

From this directory, let's clone the git directory. This command is 
in the written part of the tutorial and it might be easier to copy-and-paste it 
from there, rather than try to copy from this screencast.

.. git clone https://github.com/mongodb-university/realm-tutorial-backend.git

We now have a directory named ``realm-tutorial-backend``. Let's switch to that, 
and we're ready to import this app to our cluster. 

Type ``realm-cli push``. When the push is complete, you'll see this message. 
Let's switch back to our browser. When the app has finished being created, you 
can click on this ``Realm`` tab, and you'll see we now have a new "tasktracker" 
realm app. You can click on the name to open the management console for the app.

.. <time tag 6>

Spend some time looking around. Here are a few things you can explore to make 
sure the app imported correctly:

> - The Schema section of the Realm UI displays information about the structure 

Reviewer 2: Throughout the transcript to this point, you've generally used quotes/backticks to refer to UI elements. It might be nice to do the same here for consistency - i.e. when referring here to Schema, Authentication, Sync, Functions, Triggers.
